

Greetings, I am Gerry Piosenka. I constructed this data set independently as I was not able to find an existing data set of Autistic
children. I have tried to get help from various Autistic groups and the medical community without any luck. Primarily because I am
not associated with a university or an established medical research group. I am simply a 75 year old retired techy working independently
to try to develop an accurate means by which parents that suspect their child might be autistic could submit one or better yet several
images of their child's face to an internet website and get a probability estimate with respect to the presence of Autism.
This is NOT of course a clinical diagnosis. However if the result indicates a high probability of Autism it might spur the parent to
seek a full clinical diagnosis. To prevent false alarms I believe the accuracy on a large test set should be at least
above 95%. To date the best I have achieved is 93%. If the data set could be expanded I believe 95$ is achievable.
There are a number of medical studies that have been conducted that show a clear correlation between facial features and Autism.
These were primarily done using a rather archaic approach based on physical measurement and done on a very limited number of children. 
Clearly an AI image classifier operating on a large and clinically verified data set is a much better solution and could be deployed
via the internet as an effective zero cost screening tool that parents that suspect their child may be autistic could use.

Information on the Data Set:
The data set consists of 4 directories:
the train directory consists of 2 subdirectories, Autistic and Non_Autistic, each containing 1327 image files in jpg format.
these are the files used for training the network
The test directory contains 2 subdirectories labelled as above each containing 140 image files used to evaluate the model accuracy.
The valid directory is similarly structured and contains 80 files in each subdirectory.

The above files can be used to train a model that inputs data from these three separate directories.

The fourth directory, labelled consolidated consists of two subdirectories, Autistic and Non_Autistic. Each contains 1507 image files.
It was created by merging the train, test and vaild files into  a single concatenated file. The first 1327 images are from the training
images. The next 140 images are from the test images and the final 80 are from the validation images. This directory can be used to train
models when the entire data set is read in then randomly subdivided into training, validation and test sets.

Note: Images were collected via Goggle searches. Images of children with Autism were primarily collected from Autism based web sites. 
Images of non-autistic children were just gathered as child images via Goggle searches. These are just random images of children.
Since about 1.6% of children have Autism there may be some images included in the non-autistic directories were the child has Autism.
However the number should be low enough not to effect the resulting accuracy. Also since thousands of images were downloaded it is
possible there is some duplication of images between the training and test set. I tried as best I could to avoid this problem.
All the images have been cropped so that to the maximum extent possible the child's face occupies the majority of the pixels in the image.

If anyone using this data set finds additional clinically verified images of Autistic children please advise me of how I might obtain
these and augment the data set. A larger data set would be beneficial for accuracy purposes.
I can be contacted directly at gpiosenka@cox.net

 
